# My thoughts on JSR 351, Java Identity API

 Identity, something that we hear more often these days with the whole web 2.0 and social services and more and more web based public services growing around us. The identity notion is an integral part of a security system in distributed services. Developing effective software system require an effective security and access control system which java provides, not exactly in the way that it should be in 2011 but it does provide what is the bare bone necessity to develop applications and frameworks on top of it and  benefit from its presence. 
 
The identity API is going to ease the interaction between the identity providers and those who consume the identity and trust the identity providers in addition to governing and managing the identity attributes. I was studying the JSR details and it seems to be covering everything required for the identity attributes governance and the required API for both ends of the usage including the client API the governing/producing API. 
 
The identity producing and consuming is not new and there are fair number of public identity producers like facebook, twitter, etc. and also products that system integrators can use  like OpenAM as an open source product or gorilla Commercial software products like ORACLE identity management  or IBM tivoli identity management software, etc. In a very simple set of words, the [JSR 351](http://www.jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=351): The Java Identity API will be as successful as it is going to be adopted. No adoption and it will endup dying some dark corner...  Design a simple and elegant API and try to ship it with some free and easy to use service implementations and it may get some momentum, otherwise it will be a goner and people will stick with what they have. 

I like the new features that it is going to introduce in the decision making or authorization part but we should see how well it will be adopted by identity providers to develop the services that provides the interaction point between the JSR interface and their repositories.  Pushing it as JSR wont really do that much without a wide adoption in the community. Look at how many implementation of the JSR 115 and JSR 196 exits to be plugged into application servers supporting the contract and you will get what I am referring to by community adoption.

